Congratulations on making it to the final video in Section 2 that the complete Android nugget developed.
Course you've learned a huge amount already.
You've learned how Android studio works with our main activity and activity main.
Working together to create our apps with added images text views buttons and text fields to our apps
and we've written some reasonably complicated code to do things like updating images and displaying
information to the user when a button is clicked.
Now it's time to put all of that knowledge together and build our final app of the section currency
converter.
And this is what it looks like.
So it's pretty simple.
We've got a nice image at the bottom there.
And then the user can put in an amount in my case in dollars and click convert and it displays the amount
in pounds as a toast.
You can use any two currencies you like doesn't need to be dollars and pounds that is going to be one
complication that you'll come across obviously to convert from dollars to pounds.
You'll need to multiply by a certain number whatever the conversion factor is but you'll find that you
can't multiply a stream by a number so you'll need to take this whatever the user has inputted and convert
it to what's known as a double which is essentially a decimal number.
So I'm going to leave that to you to see if you can figure out a quick bit of googling to get the answer.
If not of course just watch the video and I'll take you through how it's done.
Well we're looking at variable types and a lot more detail in the next section but do see if you can
work out how to do a simple conversion here by yourself.
So that's it.
Best of luck because well
all right I hope that one well and you managed to do at least most of it yourself.
I'm going to start Of course by creating a new Android studio project
call it currency converter and we'll use all the usual settings
while that's being generated.
All jump over to my browser and go back to Google images to find a nice image to go with my app.
So I'll search for
currency
and all that.
Look at that first one.
So once again if you're just trying this out for yourself perfectly fine to use these images.
But if you're going to be releasing an app you need to make sure that you have the rights to the image
or control click and save image as and save it right there on the desktop.
It's 2000 by 1000 which is a little larger than I need.
So I'm just going to adjust the size OK for one thousand and buy 500.
Generally you should be aware of the resolution of the devices that you're supporting and then choose
a suitable image resolution so that it will look good but not take up too much memory.
OK here we go.
Here we are.
So let's add our image in to our drawable folder
so command C or Control-C on Windows and then over to drawable and command or control the on Windows
that we got.
All right.
I'm going to set up the layout first of
so I'll start by getting rid of that label that I don't need and then bringing in an image of the
then we'll set the saw see where the source for the image be to be our currency or peg should be down
in the bull's list.
I think I missed it.
There it is.
That's great.
And I'll actually leave it as that lay out and
I'll take a textfield and this can be a number which we haven't used before.
We need a number for
our amount.
So I'll use the hint
and the amount in dollars to tell the user what to do.
And then I'll call this dollar amount at it.
Text
excellent.
And then the only other that we need is a button so drag this to the center and then just underneath
the edit text
and I'll change that to convert
and then find the on click.
There it is.
And I'll just call it converts great.
I just set that C run in the background.
And then while it's running we'll go over and write our code.
In main activity Java
OK so again this should be second nature to you by now we're a public method which doesn't return anything.
It's called convert
and or create a view called a view to represent the button that we'll call the convert method.
So as before I'll just do a quick test to make sure everything's connected up right.
I'll start by
getting the amount at it.
I call it dollar amount added text and then you find VBIED resources dot ID dot dollar amount and it
text and we'll convert that to an added text
and then for now I'll just log
mounts and then deliver it text you get text start to string
OK.
C looks like we did get the app running so we'll just wait for that C to run with the new code.
And we should find that whatever we enter in the text field will be saved in the logs.
So you can see we've got our number keyboard which is great.
Let's have a quick look.
And 2009 is right there in the
prelim.
So we've got our amount as I mentioned we're going to need to convert our string here to 8 double.
So a number type essentially.
So let's see if we can figure out how to do that.
Android let's say for convert string to double.
Here we go converting strings to double and Android stack.
I fly once again.
Let's have a look we don't need to read the whole question
OK this seems to do the trick.
Pass double
OK.
That looks like that's the command that we need.
Let's jump back over to Andrew's studio and see if we can figure out how to do it.
So we're going to need to create a variable type of double and hopefully we've got the idea now to create
a double We use double with a capital D.
So this is going to be the dollar amount as a double and we're going to get this
using the pass double
method.
So if we use Double Dot pass double and then we're going to put a string into that and the string is
going to be dollar amount at it text or get text
dot to string
then we're going to convert that to pounds.
So I'll just call this pound amount.
Let's check out what the conversion is
say at the time of recording it is no point 7 5
so we're going to take our dollar amount double and multiply that by nought point seven five
OK.
And then we want to display that.
So let's just play it as a test
so we'll create a new test
and then we're going to take our pound amount and we're going to need to convert that back to a string
which we know how to do.
It's just got to string.
And just to make it a little nicer I think I'll put a little pound sign at the beginning.
All right.
I should do it.
Let's have a look.
So we've taken our dollar amount as a text.
We've got the value and then we've passed that or converted it to a double which is essentially a number
and then we've taken that number.
Multiply that by no point seventy five in a new variable could pound the amount and then we've created
a toast using pound amount to string and a pound sign has
the content of our toast.
So let's have a look.
Well start with 239 converts.
That looks just about right.
Fantastic.
So forget $90 £67 50 $10 £7.
50.
Now some of you might be thinking seven point five.
Been nice if that was two decimal places.
Let's see if we can figure out how to do that.
Maybe Android.
I'm going to put Java in this time because just two decimal places on its own might not be enough.
With Android.
So there we go.
Looks like we've got a good result.
So we can use string.
Format
OK.
So it looks like we'll use that here.
So string doc format and then the string we want to or the amount that we want to convert is pound amount
and that percent decimal point to f rounds to two decimal places.
So let's have a quick look
and see if that does what we wanted.
OK here we go.
So I convert.
So here we go up 10 back in.
Convert very nicely to 7 pounds 50.
Let's just try one more 360.
Yep that looks perfect.
Excellent.
So well done you've made it to the end of section 2 of The Complete Android and develop of course.
I hope you've enjoyed yourself and you've managed to make a few real apps already in the next section.
We'll be going on to looking at Java in a lot more details.
So far we've just been crabbing together really bits of Java without knowing the whole picture.
So in the next section where we starting looking at Java from scratch and seeing how all these variable
types methods classes and a lot more all fit together we're doing that in the next section.
I'll see you there.
Congratulations on making it to the final video in section 2 of the complete Android and developer of
course.